Knowledge graphs aren't just fancy way
to represent information. They are a
powerful way to help AI actually reason
over it. In today's video, we're
building a graph rack system to ask
question and understand the topic of AI
copyright. This topic is a mess, and I
mean that in the most interesting way
possible. It's one of the complex topics
that everyone talks about, but no one
actually understand what's going on. The
information isn't sitting in one place.
is scattered across hundreds of news
articles, court filings, policy
documents, and hot takes published
across the web. So in this video, we are
going to build a system that scripts
that information live from Google News,
turns it into a structured knowledge
graph, and then use graph rack to ask
questions no search engine or standard
AI could reliably answer. For example,
which companies are at the center of
these disputes and how are they all
connected? By the end of this video, you
know exactly what GraphRack is, why it
got all the hype, how it works, and when
to use it. And finally, I'll show you
how to build it yourself on a real
complex document data set you may have.
I'll share a code walkthrough later in
this video for this project. Before we
jump in, a quick thanks to SER API for
sponsoring this video. SER API is what
we're using to script Google News
results for our data set in this
project. It gives you real time
structured clean search results from
Google and other search engines through
a simple API. So no browser automation
needed and trust me that makes your life
a lot easier. I'll link it in
description below for you to check out.
Let's get into it. Now let's start with
a quick recap of how standard or naive
rack retrieval augmented generation
works because understanding its
limitations is what makes graph rack
click. In a typical rack pipeline, you
take your documents, so PDFs, articles,
text files, transcripts, and split them
into chunks. Each chunk gets converted
into a numerical vector using an
embedding model. These vectors capture
the meaning of the text. So, chunks
about similar topics end up close
together in what we call the vector
space. Then when a user asks a question,
the system converts that question into a
vector too, finds the chunks closest to
it and pulls those chunks and feeds them
into the LM as context. And the LM then
generates an answer based on the
question and the context that it was
given. This system is great because it
allows the LLM to answer questions about
data it was never trained on. things
like your company's internal documents,
your research papers, your customer
tickets, whatever. But here's the
problem. As you have more and more data,
the accuracy drops. One study found that
vector search accuracy starts degrading
at just 10,000 pages, reaching a 12%
accuracy drop by 100,000 pages. The more
documents you add, the more overlap you
get in the embedding space and the
harder it becomes for the system to
retrieve the right chunks. But scaling
isn't even the main issue. Standard rack
has two more fundamental blind spots.
The number one is each chunk is treated
as an isolated fragment. Once documents
are split and embedded, every chunk
exists on its own, disconnected from the
chunks around it and from related
information in other documents. The
system may find text that sounds related
to your question but has no
understanding of how those fragments
connect to form a complete picture. The
blind spot number two of the standard
rack system is that it has no ability to
reason across documents. When an answer
requires linking information scattered
across multiple sources or when the
question is about the data set as a
whole like what are the main legal
arguments around this topic or what are
the main themes emerge from these
documents then standard rack has no
mechanism for it this is the problem
graph rack was built to solve graph rack
adds a structural layer on top here's a
core idea it uses an LLM to read its
chunk and extract the entity For
example, people, companies,
technologies, events, legal cases, and
the relationships between them. These
entities become notes in a knowledge
graph, and the relationships become
edges connecting them. The result is a
structured graph of your entire data set
that reflects how the information
actually relates across documents.
Microsoft research who originally
published the GraphRack paper calls this
sensemaking the ability to understand
connections, patterns and themes across
a large body of information rather than
just retrieving isolated facts. Using a
knowledge graph has been shown to
improve LM response accuracy. Now I want
to be clear with you about something.
Graph rack doesn't replace standard
vector rack. They're good at different
things. Here's the simple rule. At
GraphRack, when you're working with
hundreds or thousands of interconnected
documents or questions require
connecting facts, tracing relationships,
or identifying patterns, or you need big
picture answers, for example, themes,
trends, summaries across an entire data
set. You also want transparency and
ability. You need to trace how the
system arrived at an answer. And so in
general using graph rack approach for
your Q&A system makes sense if you are
working in domain like law policy or
research where accuracy on complex
queries is critical. On the other hand,
you can use standard vector rack when
the questions are direct fact lookups.
For example, when was this law passed or
who filed this lawsuit? Also, when the
answer lives inside a single document or
chunk and speed and cost are the
priority and your data set is small and
doesn't have dense across document
relationships. All right, now let's get
into how graph rack actually works under
the hood. There are two main phases in a
graphrack system. The first one is
indexing where you build the knowledge
graph from your database and the second
one is querying where you actually
retrieve information from it. This is a
general pipeline. Microsoft's approach
which our project follows extends it
into two additional steps. So community
detection we are grouping related
entities into clusters and the other
step is community summarization where we
generate LM summaries for each cluster
or each community. At query time, these
summaries are queried instead of the raw
graph, which is what makes it
particularly effective and fast for big
picture questions. All right, let's head
over to VS Code and I'll show you step
by step how this project works. In this
project, I've prepared two Jupyter
notebooks. The first one is script
info.ipinb.
This is where we script information uh
the Google search results for this topic
AI copyright and governance. and the
other notebook is solely dedicated to
implementing the graph rack uh pipeline.
So let me walk you through first how I
script the Google search results with
SER API. SER API is really cool. If you
look at their website and look at the
APIs here, there's a list of all
different kinds of APIs that you can use
to collect data from the web. So, this
is going to be really, really handy if
you want to collect data yourself on any
topic out there. In my case, I'm going
to use Google search API. And here's the
playground where you can test it out for
free. So, for example, if I search a
query, for example, how to make
capuccino. Here's a location. And we
don't need to select location. So, let's
search for this query. And here you can
see there's a bunch of uh search results
that that comes back. And here's the
rest of the search results. And you can
see that there's a bunch of um websites.
And on the right side, we can see this
is the uh JSON response that we would
get if we call the API for this search
query. So API has a free tier. So you
can try it out for free. In my case, I
have a free plan as well and you can
generate your own API key for your
project. All right, back to the project.
First, I'm going to install some
dependencies for this project. So, the
three big ones here are firstly Google
search results. So, this is the Python
client for SER API. That's a service
that lets us search Google
programmatically. And uh next we have
the draft Lura. This is a library that
we use for extracting article text from
web pages and YouTube transcript API
which grabs transcripts from YouTube
videos. So these are the main libraries
that we will be using. Next we go to the
import and configuration. So here are
just um importing all these uh modules
that we need. I've already saved my API
keys in this env file. So we just need
to load them instead of hard- coding the
API key in the notebook. We also set the
maximum number of results to 10 which is
how many search results we want per
query. So normally you will get yeah you
you'll actually get 10 um articles for
the first page of the Google search. But
if you want to have only five or seven
uh first articles, you can also specify
it here. On the other hand, if you want
to collect results from multiple pages
from Google search, then you have to
call the API multiple times. Next, I
defined a function called collect search
results that basically takes a query or
list of queries. For example, how to
make a cappuccino or in our case AI
copyright lawsuits. Then we also take
the number of results. So I defaulted to
the maximum number of results for each
query. And then this function basically
loop over all the queries and uh call
the API with with with this basically
with this uh lines of code. So use the
Google search module here and apply the
parameters that we defined here. So we
define the engine as Google query is the
query. Google domain is google.com
and the language is English etc. And
finally the API key that is our API key.
So here we get back the search results
and finally I'll just um get back the
dictionary and then we just need to
append the results for each query to the
raw results variable. And really the
rest is just bookkeeping and just uh
keeping all the results in in a certain
format. In this case, this is um uh I
turn it into a data frame and in the end
remove the duplicated URLs. So the same
article, same website may appear in the
search results for different queries. So
I want to avoid that. And so I remove
all the duplicates and return the data
frame together with the raw results. And
let's just run this. And here we
actually run this function collect
search results for these two queries. AI
intellectual property and copyright
generative AI. You can swap out these
out for whatever topic you are
researching. So I'll just quickly run
this and the output is basically a to
table with 10 articles collected.
Actually it's 20. So 10 articles each.
And here I just want to give a quick
peek at the full raw API response that
we actually got. So this is a list of
the search results for these two
different queries. So this is useful for
debugging and it's not really critical
at all. Uh just know that this is the
raw results that we actually got um to
produce this table. Now the next step is
to actually scrape text from articles
and videos that we got from the Google
search results. So based on all these
different URLs for all these different
articles and videos, we can actually
scrape the text from them. So the full
article text and not only the uh short
snippets here that show up on the Google
search. So these scrapers are really the
core of this notebook. And here for the
scraping of the uh articles, I'm using
the traura
library. Oh my god, this is such a
difficult library name. And this module
basically downloads a web page and
strips away all the junk. For example,
the navigation bars, the ads, the
footers to give you just the article
text. So it's way better than trying to
pass the HTML yourself with beautiful
soup or whatever other library for web
scraping. And then for the YouTube
transcripts, I just extract all the
video ids from the URL with a regax. So
here is a reck that allows me to extract
the video ID from an URL and then the
get transcript function basically take
the um video ID that we got and call the
YouTube transcript API to get back the
transcript. So the whole thing is tied
together in this enrich search results
function. It takes the data frame that
contains the information for the
articles and for the videos and then add
the full text column with the results.
So here if I just run it for you and
let's see this in action. So here we go.
The output here is a data frame again
with all the 20 articles and videos that
we got from Google search. But the
difference is now we have the full text
column that contains the text or the
transcripts from articles and videos. So
note that I also have to remove some of
the articles here that maybe some
articles might be behave or they have
bought protection or some videos just
don't have captions. So we only keep the
results that have the status success. So
this gives us only the usable results.
This is the final final output and we
can take a look at this. And finally I
just save it into a um CSV file called
AI copyright data set. And the idea is
we will use this full text the full text
column or the text from the articles
that we scraped to create the knowledge
graph and build a graph rack pipeline on
top of it. That is it for collecting
real world data. The next step is to
actually build the graph rack pipeline.
All right. So in this part I'm going to
walk you through a full graph rack
pipeline from scratch. And what we're
building here is a knowledge graph on
top of the data set that we just
scripted with SER API about AI copyright
and governance and then build a
knowledge graph and detect communities
within this graph and then generate
community summaries and visualize this
graph and finally query using graph
rack. So the key packages that we are
going to need here is llama index which
is the framework we are building on. We
also have grasper logic. So this is a
library that gives us the lighten
algorithm for community detection. And
for visualization we're going to be
using d3.js and not bis sorry. So going
to remove this here. All right. So we go
to imports and configuration. So
basically import all the things that we
need and also load the API keys for
OpenAI because I'm going to use OpenAI
models. So we're going to need OpenAI
API key over here. All right, moving on
to configuration. We use two different
models and this is simply for cost
optimization. GBD 40 mini handles all
the heavy lifting. So the extraction and
community summarization because that
work is repetitive and high volume. You
certainly don't need the smartest model
for that. But for the final query
synthesis we switch to GPD40 which has
better reasoning quality and here larger
model is better. So the rest of this
cell is basically it's pretty
self-explanatory. So we have the
extraction LLM being GBD 40 mini. The
query lm is uh GPD40. We process up to
50 articles and we extract up to 20
entity relationship entity triplets per
chunk. Here I call it per chunk but
actually it's per article because I
didn't actually split the articles into
chunks because I found that the articles
are not super long. So I just skip this
uh chunking step. And we also run four
parallel workers for the extraction to
speed things up. All right, moving on to
the next step which is to define the
ontology. And this is one of the most
important steps that people often skip.
The ontology as I mentioned earlier is
the schema of our knowledge graph and it
tells the LLM exactly what types of
energies and what types of relationships
it's allowed to extract. So it's really
really important and for this particular
use case about researching um on the AI
copyright and governance I defined below
in this cell entity types and eight
relationship types. Uh and here we just
basically put it in a list like so. The
entity types include the organization uh
like companies or labs or in industry
groups. And here we have the list of
relationship types that we want to
extract. So for example, filed against
or defendant in for example OpenAI is
the defendant in the New York Times
lawsuit uh or regulates or trained on or
part of. So one person can be part of an
organization. So how you define ontology
really depends on your particular use
case or your domain knowledge. And here
is just a very basic example of how you
might want to do that. So let me run
this cell. And so here we have the
entity types and relationship types
printed out. The next step is the
extraction prompt. In this step, we
basically specify an uh a a prompt
template. And this prompt template is
going to take the allowed entity types
and allowed relationship type that we
defined in our ontology. And then it
specify the goal given a news article
about AI copyright governance and
intellectual property. Identify all
entities mentioned in the article and
their relationships. Extract up to how
many triplets or relationship entity
triplets that um we have defined before
that is 20. And um steps is first
identify all entities and for each
entity extract these different fields.
Firstly name uh the type and the
description. For example, openAI um
being an organization and description.
So for example, this is an AI provider
so on and so on. The second step is to
identify relationships between those
entities. And for each relationship
extract the source of the relationship.
So the name of the source entity and
then the target entity and the actual
relationship. So for example it can be
defendant in so openai is defendant in
the New York Times lawsuit and the
description of this relationship. So
just one sentence explaining why and how
these energies are related. And the
reason why we want to get all these
descriptions here for the energies and
relationships is because that is going
to provide extra context um for us later
when we generate the community
summaries. It's going to enrich those
summaries. And finally we just pass in
the real article text here for the
extraction. Now let's run this cell. And
here is just a preview of this uh this
prompt printed out. Now in the next step
we have the pantic extraction models. So
instead of passing raw LLM text with
regax. So for example it gives an output
like this which is fragile and very
annoying to pass. We define three
models. The first one is extracted
entity which has the name, the type and
the description corresponding to the
information we want to extract for each
entity. And then we have the extracted
relationship which has source target
relation and description. And the third
data model is the extraction result that
basically wraps a list of extracted
entity and a list of extracted
relationship together in one data data
object. All right. So let's run this
one. And so we have these models
defined. Now the beautiful thing about
using these pidantic schemas is that
later when we pass these schemas to
OpenAI as a function calling schema, the
output that is returned from the LM will
be automatically validated and typed. We
don't need to manually pass the outputs
which can be really really annoying and
messy. the structured output or the
structured JSON that gets returned by
the LLM will be automatically validated
and typed. So we don't need to manually
pass those outputs and do some messy
string manipulation ourselves and which
can be very very annoying. Also if the
LM tries to return for example an
extracted entity that doesn't fit the
schema that output just gets
automatically rejected. So that is a
huge benefit of using pyantic for output
validation. Next we go to the graph rack
extractor. So this is really really the
core of the knowledge graph extraction
engine. This is quite a big class and
there's a bit of code in there. So let
me just explain this for you in uh plain
English. Here's what it does for each
article. So the first step it is to call
the LM and sends it to the LM using a
structured predict function here and
together with our extraction result the
bidantic schema that we defined in the
last step and then the result would be a
validated extraction result with
entities and relationships. And in step
two we are going to convert these
extracted entity into um entity note
object. And in step three we also do the
same for the relationship. Basically
taking all the relationships that we
extracted and convert them into
relation object. And the entity note and
relation objects are basically just the
way that llama index store data for
entities and relationships. That's just
the data model that they they use. And
representing the entities and
relationships that way makes our data
compatible with uh llama index later.
And in step seven, we define the graph
rack store. So this is where we convert
our knowledge graph to a network graph.
Then we run the community detection
algorithm called hierarchical lighten to
find entity clusters. And then for each
cluster we collect all the entities and
relationships and ask the LM to write a
summary for each of those clusters. So
it's like writing a briefing note to
present what this community is about.
Just a quick note here if you're not
familiar with the concept of property
graph. Property graph is just a
knowledge graph where relationships not
only are connections between entities
but they also carry a name which is a
type of relationship and some other
properties. So in this case we might
have description of the relationship or
some other properties. All right let's
go ahead and define this class and we'll
see how how it works in a bit. And then
the next step we have the graph rack
query engine and this is where query
actually gets answered. So it use a
two-step approach. The first step is per
community answering. For each community
summary we ask a cheaper model. So here
in this case GBD 40 mini whether it can
answer the question based on that
summary. If the summary isn't relevant
to the question, it will return no
relevant information and we just skip
it. And we just do this for all
community summaries. This is smart
because most communities won't be
relevant to any given question and so we
don't want to waste tokens on them. And
in the step two, we take all the
relevant partial answers based on all
the different community summaries and
send them to a stronger model. And in in
this case this is TBD 40 to synthesize
into one final and clean uh response. So
this is the code for this graph rack
query engine. And here you can see that
we have um two steps here. Step one is
to get the partial answer from each
community summary and step two is to
aggregate those answers in one final
answer. So that is it for this graph
query engine. Now that we've got all the
configuration and all the necessary
classes, we now will start loading our
actual article data set um that we've
seen before. And this is the article
data set containing the full text for
the articles. And then we wrap articles
as document. We have the article text
goes in as the main content and we have
the meta data here being containing the
title, source and date. So no chunking
is needed here because the articles are
short enough um to fit in the LM's
context window as is. So I skip the
chunking part. So here is all the text
in this fourth document in our notes
list. So here is the actual article text
and so let's move on to building the
knowledge graph. This is where it all
comes together. We instantiate the graph
rack extractor and the graph rack store
and then we will pass the graph rack
extractor and the graph store into the
llama index property graph index. The
index here handles the full workflow
automatically. It takes the documents so
the nodes passes it through our
extractor so the knowledge graph
extractor and the extractor calls the
RLMS and gets back the structured
entities and relationships and stores
them in the graph store. So this is
where everything happens and this is
actually the most time consuming step in
the whole notebook. It's making lm codes
for every single article. So let me
quickly run this cell. All right, now
this is running and we are building the
knowledge graph from all the documents
that we have. This may take a few
minutes, so let me just speed this up.
All right, we've just finished building
the knowledge graph. So let's print out
an example article. Here is an example
article together with all the extracted
entities and relationships that that
were identified from this article only.
So one organization is Darrow Everett
LLP, the government, the US copyright
office, AI system creativity machine, AI
system chatbt
um AI system midjourney and so on. And
then we have the relationships they are
um the US copyright office references um
creativity machine um and regulates
copyright act uh so on and so on. So
these are all the relationships among
all these different entities. It's a
nice sanity check to make sure that the
extraction is working properly and you
can also print out all the unique
entities that were identified just to be
sure that we don't have any weird stuff
going on over here. So for each
different type of entities we have um
these different things. Some of the
entities were not extracted properly. So
it falls back to just call it entity and
for example here 10,000 responsive
comments generative AI copyright
disclosure act. I'm not sure why it was
not categorized properly but these
really didn't happen very often. So I
didn't bother. The rest of the entities
look pretty okay to me. So I just go on
with the next step. In step 12 we start
building the communities and generate
summaries for them. And this line
basically runs the lighten community
detection clusters the entities and then
we generate the summaries for each
cluster. Let's run this cell. And I'm
also printing out all the summaries from
the communities as well. So here you can
see community zero. This cluster
encompasses key entities and concepts
related to AI copyright and governance
including blah blah blah. Community one
on the other hand centers around the
European AI EU's AI act so on and so on.
Cool. Once that's done, we move on to
the next step which is really fun that
is about visualizing the knowledge graph
that we've got here. I'm using D3.js and
we basically this cell basically exports
the graph that we have to a JSON file
called graph data.json. I've already run
this so that's why you see it here. And
then we inject it into a D3.js
HTML template. So this is the graph
template. Claude uh did this for me and
it's really nice now that AI can do a
pretty decent job at this. Now the
visualization has been saved to the AI
copyright graph. HTML file. So let me
quickly go live here and show you what
it does. And here is the visualization.
Uh this is HTML file. This is network
graph. It looks pretty cool, right? And
you can see that we have different
entity types that are coded in different
colors. I've also instructed claw to
make the size of the nodes correspond to
the number of connections that it has.
So for example, here we can see that we
have open AAI here. And if we click on
here, we can see that these are the
different connections that it has. Open
AAI has one legal case that is connected
to New York Times. It's good to note
that the visualization itself is not
essential for the graph rack to work,
but it's great for presentations and for
understanding what your graph actually
looks like. Finally, we get to query the
system. This is really the end goal that
we want to reach. Here we create a query
engine that contains the graph store and
the query lm which is GPT40 for final
synthesis. So let's define this query
engine and then we can start asking
question to this query engine. The first
question I want to test is a big picture
kind of thematic question. What are the
main legal arguments being made around
AI copyright and training data? So let's
run this one. We pass this query to the
query engine and basically call this
custom query method and just wait and
see what comes back. And in this
question, no single article has the full
answer. Standard rack pipeline will
struggle here. But graph rack
synthesizes across multiple communities
and it should be able to give a more
comprehensive answer. All right, here's
the answer. The main legal arguments
around AI copyright and training data
focus on several key issues. Authorship
and ownership, use of training data,
fair use doctrine, regulatory
frameworks, legal reform, economic and
ethical implications. So these are five
main arguments. So it's pretty cool. And
moving on to the next test I want to do
that is a question that concerning cross
entity relationships. For example, which
companies are involved in AI copyright
and governance dis disputes and what are
their positions? The answer comes back
with several companies involved in
disputes, stability against artist and
lawsuit from Getty Images, Midjourney
against Daro Everett LLP and OpenAI
facing and Microsoft facing copyright
infringement lawsuit from the New York
Times and so on and so on. So this is an
example of cross energy relationships.
Traditional rack pipeline would really
struggle to give a complete answer.
Question number three is about
comparative policy question. For
example, how different governments are
approaching AI governance and the answer
is I don't have enough information in
the knowledge graph to answer that
question. This actually surprised me,
but I'm guessing that most articles are
about the US and not about other
governments like EU or the UK. So
probably there's really not enough
information for comparison. So that's
the full pipeline. And to recap, we
defined an ontology to keep things
consistent. We built a custom graph rack
extractor to extract entities and
relationships alongside their
descriptions. And then we run the
community detection algorithm on the
graph and generate summaries using an
LM. And then we visualize the graph and
build a query engine that reasons over
those community summaries. While
building this project, I noticed a
couple of different things that didn't
go quite well. For example, some
entities come back with slightly
different names. For example, the US
Copyright Office versus Copyright
Office. So a lot of those energies can
be dduplicated and normalized to make it
more consistent and more useful. And
there you have it, a full working graph
system built on live data you script
yourself reasoning over one of the most
complex and opaque topics right now in
tech. You can find the full code in the
link in description along with SER API
if you want to try this on your own
research topic. You can also scan the QR
here to get the link.